[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So
on to like configuration now.
We can use process.env.NODE_ENV
like I was saying before,
that variable to tell our application
what environment it's running in.
And the possible options
that we use as a community
is gonna be some variance of these three,
but usually these three.
So it's either you're in testing,
development, or production.
By default you're in nothing so
you have to set that default yourself.
So it's a good practice,
or at least in my opinion,
to just set it to development by default.
So just assume you're always in
development until you specifically
change it from production or testing.
>> Speaker 1: So,
those are the common ones.
Depending on the ENV,
we can change things in our app,
like database URLs or
toggle logging on and off.
That way we don't have to go in and erase
every single, where's that console log.
I think I'll find it and erase it.
You can just turn it off
with an environment variable
like turn off all logging.
All right.
We can also set and
reference other environment variables.
So if I wanted to get the secret token for
Facebook so I can have
it work on my authentication scheme, you
can do that, right, environment variables.
So instead of searching everywhere for
these values to change, so for instance,
if I just sprinkled these values all
the way through our server, right,
and then now I had to go change them
like if I was like all right, logging,
you're going to be enabled if node E and
V is production.
And then another file,
I did the same thing for logging.
And another file,
And now, we're at testing, so right now
I got to go change all of this stuff.
It'd be great if we could
just put this in one place.
So what we're going to do
is have a config file.
Just one file that sets up all these
variables inside of our application.
Now files is gonna export an object.
That will just pass an object
around our application.
And that's gonna tell our application
about what it can and cannot do,
and what certain values are,
and what they are not.
So depending on the NODE_ENV,
we can require other config files in.
And merge the two together so
our app can use it.
So I'll show you what that looks like and
why that's important.
So here's our config file.
It might look something like this.
Yeah, question.
>> Speaker 2: The question is why are we
using service oriented instead of MVC?
>> Speaker 1: Good question.
There really isn't a specific
reason other than,
one I really like service
oriented approach.
It's very familiar if you've
built on the front end for
things like a components with like React
or Angular or anything like that web
components it favors that and
the Node is actually moving towards that.
So like there's big push for different
types like real time applications with
Node so using things like Falcor or
GraphQL or even using Flux architecture on
the back end, it just makes more sense for
us to reason about our
application in this way.
But there's definitely nothing
wrong with the traditional way,
I still see that happening.
So frameworks like JS still use that,
there's nothing wrong with it.
Just like there is nothing wrong
if you're on the front end and
you wanted to organize your code like
put all my JavaScript in this file,
put all my CSS in this file,
put all my HTML in this file.
There's nothing wrong with that,
it'll work.
But, in my opinion it's a lot easier
to just have everything that belongs to
something in one place.
That way I don't have to go
look a million places for it.
It also allows me to, if i just want
to not use that feature anymore I
can just go to whatever is using it and
comment it out and
it will still work, everything will
still work it just won't that feature.
Versus if I wanted to turn it off in
the other approach I'd have to go in many
different places to find where it's being
used and that could be kind of hard.
So this is pros and cons for both
approaches but I think this is a better
approach and because Express has those
mini routers it kind of like encourages
you to set it up this way.
>> Speaker 1: Any other questions on that?
Great so we have this config object so
it looks something like this.
We'll have like a ENV which is
like what environment are we in.
So remember I said by default
NODE_ENV is nothing so
you should set it to something and
that's what I'm doing here.
So ENV is either gonna be process ENV or
development.
Logging I don't know maybe
turn it off by default,
and then we have like some secrets
we'll have like a GitHub token or
a JSON web token secret
something like that.
So this is just an example of like
what a config file may look like.
It's depending on what your app needs but
very important things that we use
throughout applications we'd
store in like a specific file.
Right notice I didn't hard code the actual
secret GITHUB_TOKEN in here, or
the secret JSON web token in here, cuz
this file's gonna be in source control, so
I didn't hard code it in.
It's gonna be passing through
the environment, all right?
But I also don't wanna go around every
single file and have to write this out.
I need the GITHUB_TOKEN.
Let me write process.env.GITHUB_TOKEN.
I don't wanna write that out, right?
So I could just say,
just give me config.secret.GITHUB_TOKEN.
Which is actually just as long.
[LAUGH] Right.
But at least I know it's in one place.
>> Speaker 1: So
the part that I was talking about as far
as like using the environment variable
to load up different configurations,
this is really cool I think,
this is a practice that I learned,
I can't remember where I learned it, but
I adopted it and I went with it and
I really liked it.
And I'm starting to see
a lot of people use it too.
What we can use this approach,
you can think of this config
object as the base config.
This is the config that it starts off
with, but depending on the environment.
We'll load in a different config object
that will override properties on
here, right?
So depending on what the no EMV is,
whether it's development, testing or
production, we'll have an equivalent file.
So this is config.js, and
then we'll have development.js and
testing.js and production.js.
And because those names of the files
line up with the name of
the environments that we're in.
We can just use the environment
to require the appropriate file.
That way we don't have to
guess which file to require.
So we can just say require the
process.NODE_ENV, which could be testing,
development or production.
And since we have that
testing.js development.js and
production.js, it's gonna require one of
those files, depending on the environment.
All right.
>> Speaker 1: Just like this.
So you can put variables
inside of require statement.
So it's like I wanna require
whatever the environment is.
So this might be requiretesting.js,
or requireproduction.js, or
requiredevelopment.js.
And that itself is gonna be
another object just like this
that has different properties on it,
and maybe some of the same properties.
Maybe it will overwrite
logging to be true.
So in development,
we definitely want logging to be true.
We wanna, if we write a log,
we wanna see the development.
So maybe in development.js,
it will say logging true.
And that will override this.
All right, so then we do that.
And then what we do is we just merge them.
>> Speaker 1: So actually,
now that I think about it,
assign probably wouldn't work here
because it doesn't go all the way deep.
You probably use something like
underscore merge but, you get the point.
We need to extend these objects together.
So the way this, if you don't know what
assign or extend how that works is every,
so what happens is every argument after
the first argument, every object, it'll
take it and put, and it will merge the
properties onto the object on the left.
So I can put as many objects
as I want over here and
it will just keep putting
them on this object and
then return it.
>> Speaker 1: So
that's like ENV will take
precedent over this config and
it will overwrite properties on it and
then we'll export it.
So now our application now has this new
object with all these properties on it and
we can use these flags or these values
in here to do things in our application.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 1: You're gonna see this and
you're gonna do this so.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
So.
>> Speaker 1: For
our blog application which is
what we're going to be making.
The server part at least,
not the front end.
The front end's already made.
We made it on Monday and Tuesday.
We can start thinking about what
resources we would need, to make and
start planning out the resources.
So think about routes,
models, controllers, right?
So we can plan out the routes so
that we can start organizing it.
So for the resources we'll be
using just very minimal resources.
We're not gonna get too
involved with this API so
as far as resources goes we're
only gonna be using three.
We're gonna have users we're gonna
have posts, which are the actual blog
posts themselves, and then we'll
have categories, that way we can
organize our posts like this post has
this category like a simple blog.
So those are the only
resources we are going to use.
We're not going to get too crazy.
There are so many things.
We can have tags, we can have all
different types of stuff in a blog.
But we're gonna have users
who can create posts.
We'll have posts that belong to users and
have many categories.
Then we'll have categories that don't
belong to anything.
>> Speaker 1: So
knowing what we know about REST and
API design so far, we know that we will be
creating CRUD routes for these
resources using middleware and routers.
Just like we did with the lions and
tigers.
So we have our resources.
We know we will create CRUD routes, and we
know for sure that there are at least five
CRUD routes we'll make for
each one of these resources.
So if we just do the math,
that's 15 routes.
We know that just by that.
Will we ever use all those routes?
No, but it's nice.
We should probably start with them and
then we'll take back.
So, for instance, we don't want
the ability to go in and create users.
Right?
You'd be God.
You don't want to go in and
just start making users.
You need some type of authentication for
that.
You need to sign up.
Or be invited or something like that
like you can't go to somebody's
work place blog and be like I am a user
now I'm gonna start writing posts.
You can't do that,
you've gotta be invited right, or
you have to be the creator and
then there's different roles and stuff.
So yeah but we'll start off just assuming
that we'll create all crud routes for
these things.
So yeah we'll use middleware and
routers to tweak and configure those and
then we'll model the resources later,
so don't worry about modeling the data.
All right,
we don't need to do that right now.
All we need to know is that we have these
resources, they will have crud and they
definitely need those routes so we can
actually start writing code for it now.
But we'll model the resources
after we get done with this,
then we'll talk about Mongo and stuff.
So but now that's all we need
to have the resources so
we can get started building
out the skeleton files.
So knowing what we know
about organization and
configuration and the resources we're
gonna use, that's enough information for
us to go ahead and start building
out the scaffold version of our API.
So we'll have all the files in place,
they might not be doing anything yet,
but we'll have it all in there.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 1: Okay,
any questions on this, cuz I about
to tell you what you're about to do?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: They were
kind of discussing the mock and
the fixture.
And somebody mentioned that, when you were
talking about the lion that you created,
in his opinion that that wasn't a mock,
that that was a fixture, where a mock is
used more like an API call that,
rather than waiting for
it to complete, you just mock the API.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah that's also true so
yeah that's true.
I think they're loosely used, I don't
really think there's a right answer and
that's probably why I couldn't come up
with a good one because when I think of
mocks, I guess I'm thinking more of on
a front end of using stuff like angular.
I'm like mocking dependencies, but also
at the same time that does make sense.
You're mocking API calls
you want to wait for them.
So, yeah it's really hard to determine,
those are some of the loosely used
terms in our profession so, but
that, I like that explanation, so
that works very well in our context.